Add > Steampipe Cloud > Integration Doc > Grafana (#64)
turbot/steampipe-docs: docs/cloud/integrations/grafana.md

---
title: Connect to Steampipe Cloud from Grafana
sidebar_label: Grafana
---

##  Connect to Steampipe Cloud from Grafana

> [Grafana](https://grafana.com/) is a visualization tool that connects to many databases including Postgres, and enables users to query, monitor, create alerts and analyze metrics through dashboards.

Author: Rectified

Steampipe provides a single interface to all your cloud, code, logs and more. Because it's built on Postgres, Steampipe provides an endpoint that any Postgres-compatible client -- including Grafana -- can connect to.

The [Connect](/docs/cloud/integrations/overview) tab for your workspace provides the details you need to connect Grafana to Steampipe Cloud.

<div style={{"marginBottom":"2em","borderWidth":"thin", "borderStyle":"solid", "borderColor":"lightgray", "padding":"20px", "width":"90%"}}>
<img src="/images/docs/cloud/steampipe-cloud-connect-details.jpg" />
</div>

##  Connect to Steampipe CLI from Grafana

You can also connect Grafana to [Steampipe CLI](https://steampipe.io/downloads). To do that, run `steampipe service start --show-password` and use the displayed connection details.

```
Steampipe service is running:
Database:
  Host(s):            localhost, 127.0.0.1, 192.168.29.204
  Port:               9193
  Database:           steampipe
  User:               steampipe
  Password:           99**_****_**8c
  Connection string:  postgres://steampipe:99**_****_**8c@localhost:9193/steampipe
```

## Getting started

> [Grafana](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/setup-grafana/installation/) is a open source interactive data-visualization platform that runs on the cloud, or in a container, or the desktop. To use Grafana you will need to sign up and create an account. Here, we will use the desktop version.

Author: Rectified.

> With Grafana up and running, you can access it from the browser through `http://localhost:3000`. Click on `Data Sources` under the configuration option, then click `Add Data Source`, select `PostgreSQL` and enter the connection details. Since there is no field for port number, it should be added with the host as `Host:Port` and set the TLS/SSL mode to `Require`. Then click `Save & Test` to test your connection.

Author: Text Updated.

<div style={{"marginTop":"1em", "marginBottom":"1em", "width":"90%"}}>
<img src="/images/docs/cloud/grafana-connection-success.png" />
</div>

> The plugins and it's tables can be accessed through the `Explore` tab and the `Edit SQL` option can be used to customize the queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugins and its tables are available from the `Explore` tab. Use `Edit SQL` to customize the queries.
```

Author: Rectified

<div style={{"marginTop":"1em", "marginBottom":"1em", "width":"50%"}}>
<img src="/images/docs/cloud/grafana-explore-tables.png" />
</div>

The data can be previewed in a `Table format` or `Time series`. Here we see the AWS EC2 instances listed in a table format.

<div style={{"marginTop":"1em", "marginBottom":"1em", "width":"50%"}}>
<img src="/images/docs/cloud/grafana-table-format-data-preview.png" />
</div>

> ## Dashborad to monitor resources and cost

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Dashboard to monitor resources and cost
```

> Grafana uses panels as the building blocks of a dashboard that consists of queries, graphs, aliases, etc. We'll focus here on creating a dashboard to monitor AWS services and Cost. To being click on `Dashboards` and create a new dashboard. On the empty dashboard click `Add panel` to create a panel and select `aws_ebs_volume_metric_read_ops_daily` from the query builder, then click `Apply`. Now add panels for `aws_ec2_instance_metric_cpu_utilization_hourly`, `aws_s3_bucket_by_region` and `aws_vpc_by_region`. Similarly paste the query into a new panel to monitor the top 10 monthly costs by service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Panels that display charts and tables are the building blocks of Grafana dashboards.  We'll focus here on a dashboard to monitor AWS services and costs. To begin, click `Dashboards` and create a new dashboard. On the empty dashboard click `Add panel`, then select `aws_ebs_volume_metric_read_ops_daily` from the query builder and click `Apply`. 

Then add panels for `aws_ec2_instance_metric_cpu_utilization_hourly`, `aws_s3_bucket_by_region` and `aws_vpc_by_region`. And finally paste this query, which monitors the top ten monthly costs by service, into a new panel. 
```

Author: Updated the suggested text.

```
select
  service,
  sum(unblended_cost_amount)::numeric::money as sum,
  avg(unblended_cost_amount)::numeric::money as average
from
  aws_cost_by_service_monthly
group by
  service
order by
  average desc
limit 10;
```

> Grafana gives a wide range of graphics that you can use to represent the data in each panel. Now with the created panels we have our AWS Monitoring dashboard ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grafana provides a variety of chart types. Here we use A for X, B for Y, and C for Z.  
```

Reviewer: where A|B|C are chart types and X|Y|X are metrics.

Author: updated the text with the suggested format.

<div style={{"marginTop":"1em", "marginBottom":"1em", "width":"90%"}}>
<img src="/images/docs/cloud/grafana-dashboard.png" />
</div>

## Import a dashboard with JSON file

> Since, a dashboard in Grafana is represented by a JSON object, which stores its metadata. We can [import a dashboard](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/v9.0/dashboards/export-import/#import-dashboard) using json input. To import click `Import` under the Dashboards icon in the side menu and paste the below code to create a AWS S3 dashboard. With the Enterprise licensed feature you can send the dashboards as reports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Grafana dashboard is represented by a JSON object that stores its metadata. Here is the JSON definition for an AWS S3 dashboard. 

[move details widget here]

[move image here]

To import it, click `Import` under the Dashboards icon in the side menu, then copy and paste the JSON.
```

Reviewer: Nice use of the details widget. It's /so/ handy, eh?

Author: Yeah. Found this to be one of the best features to instantly share a Working dashboard with anyone.

Author: Made the requested changes

            "text": "eu-west-3",
            "value": "eu-west-3"
          },
          {
            "selected": false,
            "text": "eu-north-1",
            "value": "eu-north-1"
          },
          {
            "selected": false,
            "text": "me-south-1",
            "value": "me-south-1"
          },
          {
            "selected": false,
            "text": "sa-east-1",
            "value": "sa-east-1"
          }
        ],
        "query": "us-east-2,us-east-1,us-west-1,us-west-2,af-south-1,ap-east-1,ap-south-1,ap-northeast-3,ap-northeast-2,ap-southeast-1,ap-southeast-2,ap-northeast-1,ca-central-1,eu-central-1,eu-west-1,eu-west-2,eu-south-1,eu-west-3,eu-north-1,me-south-1,sa-east-1",
        "queryValue": "",
        "skipUrlSync": false,
        "type": "custom"
      }
    ]
  },
  "time": {
    "from": "now-6h",
    "to": "now"
  },
  "timepicker": {},
  "timezone": "",
  "title": "AWS S3",
  "uid": "aws_s3_json",
  "version": 1,
  "weekStart": ""
}
```
</details>

<div style={{"marginTop":"1em", "marginBottom":"1em", "width":"90%"}}>
<img src="/images/docs/cloud/grafana-aws-s3-dashboard.png" />
</div>

## Send alerts

> Suppose you'd like to be notified when the CPU utilization crosses a threshold value. You can use Grafana's `Alerting` feature to create an `Alert Rule` with this query and expression to evaluate the threshold value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose you'd like to be notified when the CPU utilization crosses a threshold value. You can use Grafana's `Alerting` feature to create an `Alert Rule`. 
```

Reviewer: This needs a bit more explanation. I guess $__timeFilter is the name for the expression that's built in the editor at the bottom of the screen?

Author: I've updated the text and the images to suit the text. 

Does this change look good to you?

```
select
  "timestamp" AS "time",
  average
from aws_ec2_instance_metric_cpu_utilization_hourly
where
  $__timeFilter("timestamp")
order by 1
```

<div style={{"marginTop":"1em", "marginBottom":"1em", "width":"90%"}}>
<img src="/images/docs/cloud/grafana-alerting-rules.png" />
</div>

You can set up [Contact-points](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/alerting/contact-points/) to send alert notifications. Grafana evaluates the set criteria and fires alerts.

<div style={{"marginTop":"1em", "marginBottom":"1em", "width":"50%"}}>
<img src="/images/docs/cloud/grafana-slack-alert.png" />
</div>

## Summary

> With Metabase and Steampipe Cloud you can:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Grafana and Steampipe Cloud you can:
```
